= Stats Wiki =

== Overview of Topics ==
All chapters are in reference to _Biostatistics: The Bare Essentials_.
  1. Graphing (Ch. 1,2)
  2. Descriptive Statistics (Ch. 3,5)
  3. Probability (Ch. 4)
  4. Inferential Statistics (Ch. 6)
  5. Hypothesis Testing (Ch. 7,8,10,21 + Pg. 263) 
  6. Correlation  (Ch. 13)
  7. Analysis of Frequency Data (Ch. 23)
  8. Non-parametric tests
  9. Measure of Impact (Ch. 26)

== Specifics within Topics ==

=== Graphing === 
[[Graphing]]
  * Measurement and measurement scales.
  * Box and whisker charts
  * Charts and tables

=== Descriptive Statistics ===
[[Descriptive Statistics]]
  * Mean, median, mode
  * Range, percentiles, quartiles, skewness, variation, standard deviation

=== Probability ===
[[Probability]]
  * Additive and multiplicative properties
  * Normal Distribution
    * z score
  * Sampling Distribution
    * central limit theorem
    * Sampling distribution of the mean

=== Inferential Statistics ===
[[Inferential Statistics]]
  * Estimation (point, interval)
  * Hypothesis testing (H_0/H_A, Type I/II errors, z-test, t-test, p value)
  * Statistical significance vs clinical significance
  * One sample hypothesis testing

=== Hypothesis Testing ===
[[Hypothesis Testing]]
  * Diff between
    * two related means
    * two independent population means
  * Testing for proportions
  * chi-square test of independence, Yates & Fisher's tests
  * Testing diff between more than two population means (one-way ANOVA, post-hoc tests)

=== Correlation ===
[[Correlation]]
  * Simple linear regression

=== Analysis of Frequency Data ===
[[Analysis of Frequency Data]]
  * Non parametric tests
  * Mann-Whitney U test/Wilcoxon Rank Sum
  * Wilcoxon Signed-Rank test
  * Kruskal-Wallis test
 
=== Measures of Impact ===
[[Measures of Impact]]
  * Incidence, Prevalence
  * Relative Risk
  * Odds
  * Number needed to treat


